## Chinese Quartet DNA reference materials

With the rapid development of sequencing technology and the dramatic decrease of sequencing costs, DNA sequencing has been widely used in scientific research, diagnosis of and treatment selection for human diseases. However, due to the lack of effective quality assessment and control of the high-throughput omics data generation and analysis processes, variants calling results are seriously inconsistent among different technical replicates, batches, laboratories, sequencing platforms, and analysis pipelines, resulting in irreproducible scientific results and conclusions, huge waste of resources, and even endangering the life and health of patients. Therefore, reference materials for quality control of the whole process from omics data generation to data analysis are urgently needed. 

We first established genomic DNA reference materials from four immortalized B-lymphoblastoid cell lines of a Chinese Quartet family including parents and monozygotic twin daughters to make performance assessment of germline variants calling results. To establish small variant benchmark calls and regions, we generated whole-genome sequencing data in nine batches, with depth ranging from 30x to 60x, by employing PCR-free and PCR libraries on four popular short-read sequencing platforms (Illumina HiSeq XTen, Illumina NovaSeq, MGISEQ-2000, and DNBSEQ-T7) with three replicates at each batch, resulting in 108 libraries in total and 27 libraries for each Quartet DNA reference material. Then, we selected variants concordant in multiple call sets and in Mendelian consistency within Quartet family members as small variant benchmark calls, resulting in 4.2 million high-confidence variants (SNV and Indel) and 2.66 G high confidence genomic region, covering 87.8% of the human reference genome (GRCh38, chr1-22 and X). Two orthogonal technologies were used for verifying the high-confidence variants. The consistency rate with PMRA (Axiom Precision Medicine Research Array) was 99.6%, and 95.9% of high-confidence variants were validated by 10X Genomics whole-genome sequencing data. Genetic built-in truth of the Quartet family design is another kind of “truth” within the four Quartet samples. Apart from comparison with benchmark calls in the benchmark regions to identify false-positive and false-negative variants, pedigree information among the Quartet DNA reference materials, i.e., reproducibility rate of variants between the twins and Mendelian concordance rate among family members, are complementary approaches to comprehensively estimate genome-wide variants calling performance. Finally, we developed a whole-genome sequencing data quality assessment pipeline and demonstrated its utilities with two examples of using the Quartet reference materials and datasets to evaluate data generation performance in three sequencing labs and different data analysis pipelines.

## Requirements for your data and metadata
- [`Metadata Template` - Download the metadata template and prepare your metabata](./metadata_template.md)
- [`Data Format` - Follow the data format requirements to prepare your genomics data](./omics_data_format.md)

## Guide for QC APPs
- [`QC APP` - WGS QC for Quartet](./analysis_pipeline.md)

## Guide for QC Reports
- [`QC Report` - QC Report for Quartet DNA-Seq](./qc_report.md)